- only 20% companies have erp
- this course not only about erp, relevant for us to go into work
- quiz 1 on feb2, friday
---

# Chapter 1: Introduction to Enterprise Resource Planning Systems
Notes from lecture slides:
```
erp => all modules into one sys, data from one easily visible and usable by another module 
```
```
legacy sys => old m/f sys 
```
- There are 14 ERP-Supported Business Processes

manage IT 
- supporting software, upgrades, deciding whether or not to, pros/cons

how do u know if business problems?
- measures to track it
    - e.g. > x # luggages reported problems for airlines, low traffic for websites

lack of compliance?
- mentioned sth about banks as an example

complexity
1. number of db
2. number of transactions
3. number of concurrent transactions
4. number of points of logon/entry

#  Questions from Quiz 1 (True/False)
1. ERP software for a particular industry is known as a(n) vertical or industry solution.
    - **true**, ERP vendors offer industry-specific versions of their software called vertical solutions (or industry solns)

2. A business process is a collection of activities that together add value to the company.
    - **true**

3. ERP systems are sold in modules, or groups of related programs performing a major function within the system, such as accounting or manufacturing.
    - yes, sold in modules
    - process-centered - supports end-to-end business processes
    - accounting is part of module "Management Accounting"
    - manufacturing is part of module "Operations and Supply Chain"
    - **true**

4. Software developers and programmers verify there is proper security in the data center.
    - **False**, the verification that there is proper security in the data center is done by IT Auditor
    - Software devs/programmers design customizations and program ERP system if necessary

5. missing question

6. missing question7. 

7. A best practice is a business process that is generally recognized as more effective and/or efficient than others in a particular industry.
    - **true**

8. ERP systems evolved from customer relationship management systems.
    - **false**, it evolved from material requirements planning (MRP systems) and discrete manufacturing industry
    - MRP developed into MRPII (Manuafcutring resourc eplanning systems)
    - MRPII into ERP

9. End users are involved in selecting the best ERP system out of the possible choices
    - **False**, Integration Parterns help clients select the best ERP system out of the possible choices
    - End Users are simply employees in an organization

10. Data integration increses data duplication and does not facilitate reconciliations among systems.
    -  **false**, data integration reduces data duplication and reconciliations among systems